​​Carl, here are my 10 inputs for talks for 'Tech '17 (all can be 11 or 15
min):

************************************
************************************
====================================
01 Inkscape [free, cross-platform]
   - Poor man's vector drawing program

https://inkscape.org/en/

Inkscape is a professional vector graphics editor for Windows, Mac OS
X and Linux. It's free and open source.

have logo in svg format

====================================
02 Gimp [free, cross-platform]
   - Poor man's photo editor

Gimp: GNU Image Manipulation Program

https://www.gimp.org/

GIMP is a cross-platform image editor available for GNU/Linux, OS X,
Windows and more operating systems. It is free software, you can
change its source code and distribute your changes.

Whether you are a graphic designer, photographer, illustrator, or
scientist, GIMP provides you with sophisticated tools to get your job
done. You can further enhance your productivity with GIMP thanks to
many customization options and 3rd party plugins.

have logo in svg format

====================================
03 GNU Emacs [free, cross-platform]
   - The Swiss army knife of editors

https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/

An extensible, customizable, free/libre text editor — and more.

At its core is an interpreter for Emacs Lisp, a dialect of the Lisp
programming language with extensions to support text editing.

have logo in svg format

====================================
04 Git [free, cross-platform]

https://git-scm.com/

Git is a free and open source distributed version control system
designed to handle everything from small to very large projects with
speed and efficiency.

Git is easy to learn and has a tiny footprint with lightning fast
performance. It outclasses SCM tools like Subversion, CVS, Perforce,
and ClearCase with features like cheap local branching, convenient
staging areas, and multiple workflows.

have logo in eps (=> svg) format

====================================
05 GitHub [free, cross-platform]
   - Contribute to Open Source projects

https://github.com/home

How people build software

Millions of developers use GitHub [with Git] to build personal
projects, support their businesses, and work together on open source
technologies.

GitHub fosters a fast, flexible, and collaborative development process
that lets you work on your own or with others.

GitHub is free to use for public and open source projects.

have logo in eps (=> svg) format

====================================
06 Linux [free]
   - Why use Linux?

https://www.kernel.org/category/about.html

Linux is a clone of the operating system Unix, written from scratch by
Linus Torvalds with assistance from a loosely-knit team of hackers
across the Net. It aims towards POSIX and Single UNIX Specification
compliance.

It has all the features you would expect in a modern fully-fledged
Unix, including true multitasking, virtual memory, shared libraries,
demand loading, shared copy-on-write executables, proper memory
management, and multistack networking including IPv4 and IPv6.

Although originally developed first for 32-bit x86-based PCs (386 or
higher), today Linux also runs on a multitude of other processor
architectures, in both 32- and 64-bit variants.

If you're new to Linux, you don't want to download the kernel, which
is just a component in a working Linux system. Instead, you want what
is called a distribution of Linux, which is a complete Linux
system. There are numerous distributions available for download on the
Internet as well as for purchase from various vendors; some are
general-purpose, and some are optimized for specific uses. We
currently have mirrors of several distributions available at
https://mirrors.kernel.org/.

have logo in svg format

====================================
07 Ubuntu Desktop [free]
   - A very popular Linux distribution

http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop

Ubuntu comes with everything you need to run your organisation,
school, home or enterprise. All the essential applications, like an
office suite, browsers, email and media apps come pre-installed and
thousands more games and applications are available in the Ubuntu
Software Centre.

have logo in svg format


====================================
08 VirtualBox [free, cross-platform]
   - Use Linux on Windows

https://www.virtualbox.org/

VirtualBox is a powerful x86 and AMD64/Intel64 virtualization product
for enterprise as well as home use. Not only is VirtualBox an
extremely feature rich, high performance product for enterprise
customers, it is also the only professional solution that is freely
available as Open Source Software under the terms of the GNU General
Public License (GPL) version 2. See "About VirtualBox" for an
introduction.

Presently, VirtualBox runs on Windows, Linux, Macintosh, and Solaris
hosts and supports a large number of guest operating systems including
but not limited to Windows (NT 4.0, 2000, XP, Server 2003, Vista,
Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10), DOS/Windows 3.x, Linux (2.4, 2.6,
3.x and 4.x), Solaris and OpenSolaris, OS/2, and OpenBSD.

VirtualBox is being actively developed with frequent releases and has
an ever growing list of features, supported guest operating systems
and platforms it runs on. VirtualBox is a community effort backed by a
dedicated company: everyone is encouraged to contribute while Oracle
ensures the product always meets professional quality criteria.

have logo in png format

====================================
09 Perl 6 [free, cross-platform]
   - Programming for fun and profit

http://perl6.org/

The Perl 6 Programming Language

Perl 6 is the plucky little sister of Perl 5. Like her world-famous big
sister, Perl 6 intends to carry forward the high ideals of the Perl
community.

Many new features greatly advance our tradition of expressive and
feature-rich programming:

+ Object-oriented programming including generics, roles and multiple
  dispatch

+ Functional programming primitives, lazy and eager list evaluation,
  junctions, autothreading and hyperoperators (vector operators)

+ Parallelism, concurrency, and asynchrony including multi-core
  support

+ Definable grammars for pattern matching and generalized string
  processing

+ Optional and gradual typing

have logo in svg format

====================================
10 YouTube
   - Arm-chair railfanning

https://www.youtube.com/yt/about/

Launched in May 2005, YouTube allows billions of people to discover,
watch and share originally-created videos. YouTube provides a forum
for people to connect, inform, and inspire others across the globe and
acts as a distribution platform for original content creators and
advertisers large and small.

YouTube is a Google company.

have logo in eps (=> svg) format

************************************
************************************
 
Note that they are not all exactly apps, but they are what they are.

Note also I made the attached icons 120 pixels wide to approximately match yours.

Best regards,

-Tom
