#presentation_topic: Linux
#presentation_title: Introduction to Linux
#presentation_place: Niceville, Florida
#presentation_date: 2016-01-30

=head1 Introduction to Linux

=head1 Testing Linux Distros

Several methods

=over

=item * 

Virtual Box

=item * 

Live CD/DVD

=item * 

Bootable USB drive

=item * 

Spare computer (native install; dual or single boot)

=back

We'll use Virtual Box for this presentation


=head1 Fig. 1: The VirtualBox site

Note:

=over

=item * 

the "Downloads" link

=item * 

the "End-user docs" link

=item * 

the "News Flash" section

=back

G<vbox-site.png>


=head1 Fig. 2: After selecting "Downloads"

G<vbox-dloads.png>


=head1 Fig. 3: Don't forget the "Extension Pack" (for USB 2/3; not distributable)

G<vbox-dloads-2.png>


=head1 Upgrading or installing

When upgrading or installing, you lose network access temporarily.
You may have to uninstall an old version when upgrading.


=head1 Selecting the Linux distro

Considerations (* recommended)

=over

=item * 

amount of RAM (* 2 GB+)

=item * 

32- or 64-bit (* 64-bit)

=item * 

64-bit guest on 32-bit host? (NOT recommended)

=item * 

type network interface (remote access needed?)

=back

=head1 Installing the Linux guest...

Fig. 4: Creating a new Virtual Machine (VM)

G<vbox-01.png>


=head1 Fig. 5: Naming the VM

G<vbox-02.png>

=head1 Fig. 6: Choose RAM allocation

G<vbox-03.png>

=head1 Fig. 7: May need at least 1.5 Gb

G<vbox-05.png>

=head1 Fig. 8: Select "Next"

G<vbox-06.png>

=head1 Fig. 9: Creating a virtual hard disk

G<vbox-07.png>

=head1 Fig. 10: Use the default disk type (VDI)

G<vbox-08.png>

=head1 Fig. 11: Select "Next"

G<vbox-09.png>

=head1 Fig. 12: Choose "Dynamically allocated"

G<vbox-10.png>

=head1 Fig. 13: Normally accept the default name

G<vbox-11.png>

=head1 Fig. 14: Be generous selecting disk size

Then select "Create"

G<vbox-12.png>

=head1 Fig. 15: The new VM appears in the list

G<vbox-13.png>

=head1 Fig. 16: More VM settings to be made

G<vbox-14.png>

=head1 Fig. 17: System options

G<vbox-15.png>

=head1 Fig. 18: Display options

I normally choose 24 Mb

G<vbox-16.png>

=head1 Fig. 19: Attach the installation CD/DVD

G<vbox-17.png>

=head1 Fig. 20: Navigate to the location

G<vbox-18.png>

=head1 Fig. 21: Select the desired CD/DVD

G<vbox-19.png>

=head1 Fig. 22: Check the desired CD/DVD shows as attached

G<vbox-20.png>

=head1 Fig. 23: Now start the VM

G<vbox-21.png>

=head1 Oops!

I made a typo on the guest name.  We can rename the host easily,
but we have to remove the disk and create a new one to rename it,
which is too complicated for me.  

The easiest thing to do is to start all over again and use the correct
spelling OR accept the misspelled hard disk name.

=head1 After installation

After starting and finishing the installation, you'll want to install
"Guest Additions" to have the windowing and other features work well.

Please experiment and read the excellent documentation--there's much
more that can be done to tweak a host but this should get you started.

=head1 The end

That's all, folks!
