title: Agenda
<!-- insert-file headers.md -->
date: 2018-12-03

## Agenda

* Welcome

* Quantum Geographic Information System (QGIC)

* Our community project [again]

* From the floor?

* Next meeting

* Wrap up

## Welcome

* Newcomers?  Please add info to attendance list.

* Everyone else please check attendance list.

* We would love to get a photo for our website--see me after the
  meeting.

## Quantum Geographic Information System (QGIC)

Charlie Cooke has kindly provided a short guide to installing the
Quantum Geographic Information System.  [copies available]

I would be interested if it could replace the Google Maps API.

## Our community project

I got zero interest from three libraries and two churches for our
old "Library Project" last fall.

I'm now considering pointing our original library project in a slighty
different direction:

* Ask Crosspoint to provide a room for a computer lab

* Solicit computers (laptops preferred) to be donoated to run Linux
  (native or dual-boot with Win 10)

* Use volunteer NWFLUG members who will schedule times to attend and help

* Can be used for scheduled classes of various kinds

## Why Linux?

It's still out there on our website and I will use it one of my
presentations at Computer Tech 2019 at NWFSC.

* <**<https://computertechnwf.org/>**>

As a reminder of the target audience:

* [grand]parents of children interested in STEMM (PTA/PTO)

* children interested in STEMM

* Computer Tech 2019

## From the floor

Anyone?

## Next meeting

* 7 January, Crosspoint

## Wrap up

Website (members):

* <**<https://nwflug.org/>**>

Mug shots anyone?
