title: Agenda
<!-- insert-file headers.md -->
date: 2019-01-07

## Agenda

* Welcome

* E-mail notifications

* Our community project [again]

* From the floor?

* Next meeting

* Wrap up

## Welcome

* Newcomers?  Please add info to attendance list.

    + **Dave Bricker**

* Everyone else please check attendance list.

* We would love to get a photo for our website--see me after the
  meeting.

    + **Review list**

## Computer Tech 2019

**Saturday, 26 January, NWFSC Niceville**

Contact Carl Lofstrom if you will give one or more 45-minute presentations:

* **sandcloud@embarqmail.com**

* **850-586-0603**

## E-mail notifications

As I mentioned last meeting, no one seems to get my e-mail about meetings.

When I sent out notices to the Bay Beacon and NWFDN:

* I CC'd all members (approx 50 names)

* I asked for replies to confirm receipt and asked if recipients still
  wanted to be on the list.

    + I got 7 responses: **Rick Foran, Chris Roth, Ellis Boudreaux, Ken Bentley,
      David Bentley, Joe Reyenga, and Kevin Dennis**

## Our community project

I'm now considering pointing our original library project in a slighty
different direction:

* Ask Crosspoint to provide a room for a computer lab

    + **No follow-up after initial response**

* Solicit computers (laptops preferred) to be donoated to run Linux
  (native or dual-boot with Win 10)

    + **Considering using cheap Chromebooks**

* Use volunteer NWFLUG members who will schedule times to attend and help

* Can be used for scheduled classes of various kinds


## Our community project (cont.)

* **Any ideas?**

## Why Linux?

It's still out there on our website and I will use it one of my
presentations at Computer Tech 2019 at NWFSC.

I've updated it to show the **Chromebook** as a good solution for getting
Linux.

* <**<https://computertechnwf.org/>**>

As a reminder of the target audience:

* [grand]parents of children interested in STEMM (PTA/PTO, other civic groups)

* children interested in STEMM

* Computer Tech 2019

## From the floor

Anyone?

## Next meeting

* 4 February, Crosspoint

## Wrap up

Website (members):

* <**<https://nwflug.org/>**>

Mug shots anyone?
