title: Agenda
<!-- insert-file headers.md -->
date: 2018-02-05

## Agenda

- Welcome

- Computer Tech Expo 2018

- A Proposed Project
    + Why Linux?

- From the floor?

- Next meeting

- Wrap up

## Welcome

- Everyone else please check attendance list.

- We would love to get a photo for our website--see me after the
  meeting.

## Computer Tech Expo 2018

We had four speakers from our group: Kevin Dennis, Rand Fernandez,
Patrick Womack, and me.  Thanks so much for all your help, fellow-presenters!

We also had several registered Computer Tech attendees who have attended an
NWFLUG meeting at least once:

+ Boudreaux, Ellis
+ Browder, Tom
+ Brum, Antonio
+ Dennis, Kevin
+ Roth, Chris

Note that neither Rand nor Patrick registered!

## Proposed Community Project

Still no agreed-upon and finalized, but I donated our $111.00 to Computer Tech to go
toward the $500+ expenses.

I still propose a community education project consisting of a prepared
talk with an invitation to join us for more information.


## Proposed Community Project

We have discussed such before and I'm working on my old "Intro to
Linux" talk to try to better tailor it to our desired audience:

- Computer Tech 2018 [DONE, in a broader format]

- children interested in STEMM [no progress with the public school or library system]

- [grand]parents of children interested in STEMM (PTAs/PTOs, community service clubs, etc.)

The last group is what I want to target via talks at their meetings.

Here is a draft I'm working on--comments needed. [break]


## Alternative Meeting Place

Helen Back Cafe, Niceville, is closed until further notice.

Any suggestions?

## From the floor

Anyone?

## Next meeting

- 5 March, first Monday, Crosspoint UMC

## Wrap up

Website (members):

- <**<https://nwflug.org/>**>

Mug shots anyone?
