---
title: Agenda
<!-- insert-file headers.md -->
date: 2020-06-01
---

## Welcome

* Thanks to Dave Bricker for hosting this Zoom meeting. He is taking
  attendance from e-mails.

* Welcome to our first "virtual" meeting. I hope we have some new
  folks here.

* Who are we?

* Tour of our website.

* Community project: Why linux?

* Computer Tech 2020?

* From the floor

## Who are we?

* NWFLUG

* First meeting was on 2014-04-07.

* Our mission (on our website) is "educating the local community in the use of the
non-Windows, non-Mac operating system (OS) called GNU/Linux."

## FOSS

As part of our mission we often discuss FOSS.

* FOSS - Free and Open Source Software

* Includes **linux** as well as other similar OS's

* Available on **Linux** as well as Windows and Mac

## NWLUG tour

Website:

* <**<https://nwflug.org/>**>

## Our community project

We've had several, including monetary prizes and certificates at the
Okaloosa High School Science Fair, but they didn't quite fill the
bill.

Now we're pointed toward more Linux and FOSS education, hence the
draft presentation.

## Why Linux?

As a reminder of the target audience:

* [grand]parents of children interested in STEMM (PTA/PTO, other civic groups)

* children interested in STEMM

* Computer Tech 2021

## The presentation

[break to another slide show]

## Computer Tech 2020?

We couldn't find a suitable venue.

## From the floor

Anyone want to ask a question or present anything?

## Next meeting

* 3 August, Crosspoint (but maybe Zoom again)

## Wrap up

Thanks for attending, and we hope to see you again.

Don't forget our website:

* <**<https://nwflug.org/>**>
