---
title: Why Linux?
<!-- insert-file why-linux-headers.md -->
date: 2019-09-16
---

## Hypothesis

Young people interested in careers involved with science, mathematics,
engineering, or almost any technical field should be introduced to
**Linux**.

## What is Linux?

More formally known as **GNU/Linux**, it's a free operating system
(OS) invented by Linus Torvald to provide a UNIX-like system with all
the standard command-line and graphical tools that accompany such a
system.

**Linux**, rather than Windows or Mac, provides much of the
behind-the-scenes *cloud* computing in data centers and
high-performance computing facilities. It also powers the Android, the
Chromebook, and the *Internet of Things* (IoT).

## What is Linux?

For a much more detailed look see this link:

<**<https://www.lifewire.com/basic-guide-linux-operating-system-2202786>**>

## Why Linux?

The command-line environment provides the user with almost complete
freedom to automate tasks typical in research or other work or study
in technical fields.

**Linux** also gives the user much greater control over what happens
and what does not happen on his or her computer.

As a bonus, **Linux** comes packaged with thousands of free
applications in such categories as: games, office suites, publishing
and graphics, CAD, FEA, education, science, mathematics, music, art,
and many others.

## Linux vs. Windows: Windows

Windows:

- Is everywhere

- Is primarily a GUI operation

- Is expensive

- **Hides internals**

- **Has a non-case-sensitive file system**

- Updates when Microsoft says it should, often restarting your
  computer without your permission.


## Linux vs. Windows: Linux

Linux:

- Is pretty much the opposite of Windows in most respects

- Is everywhere, although it is usually working behind the scenes

- Has both GUI and intrinsic command line capabilities

- **Is FREE**

- Shows as much or as little of the internals as you want to see

- Has a case-sensitive file system

- **Performs upgrades only if you want it to**

- Is unparalleled for the scientist or engineers: a powerful,
  "programmable calculator"

## Linux vs. Windows: Other views

Other opinions:

<**<https://www.lifewire.com/windows-vs-linux-mint-2200609>**>

<**<http://whylinuxisbetter.net/en/>**>

<**<https://www.popsci.com/switch-to-linux-operating-system#page-4w>**>

<**<https://www.makeuseof.com/tag/linux-beginners-guide/>**>

## Linux: Introduction

Desktop empty while working at the command line...

![25%](pics/my-deb8-desktop-Screenshot.png)

## Linux: Introduction (cont.)

Desktop cluttered while working with windowed programs...

![25%](pics/cluttered-desktop-Screenshot.png)

## Linux: How to get it

On Windows or Mac:

+ Use a live, bootable USB [recommended for intro]

+ Use **Putty** on Windows or a terminal app on an iPad to connect to
  a cloud server (as cheap as $2.50 per month)

+ Install the Windows 10 Ubuntu subsystem

+ Use a live, bootable CD/DVD [only as a last resort]

## Linux: How to get it (cont.)

+ Install Linux as a VM guest on Windows 10 Pro Hyper-V

+ Install VirtualBox or VMwareto run a Linux Virtual Machine

On a Chromebook:

+ Use the Linux App

Best choice:

+ Use a dual-boot, native installation

+ Use a Chromebook

## Linux comes in many \"flavors\"

A Linux system comes packaged in many **distributions** (*distros*)
such as Debian, Ubuntu, Linux Mint, and others.

See <**<https://distrowatch.com>**> for lots of information about
popularity, download statistics, and other stats on hundreds of
**distros**.

We think *Linux Mint* is one of the best *distros* for beginners. I
prefer *Debian* and have used it for over ten years.

(Note that Google has moved to **Debian** from Ubuntu recently.)

## Linux help?

There is practically an infinite amount of Linux resources to be found
on the Internet.

My group, the Northwest Florida Linux User Group (NWFLUG), meets
regularly on the first Monday of every month, and we have an
installation meeting (by appointment only) on the third Monday of
every month.

Check out our website for meeting details and locations at:

<**<https://nwflug.org>**>.
